---
layout: zcon2
title: Zcon2Lite
ignore_title: yes
excerpt: "Save The Date! Zcon2: Tuesday, June 8- Wednesday, June 9, 2021"
---

<center><img src="/images/Zcon2_Logo_White.png"></center>

Zcon2 will take place **Tuesday, June 8th and Wednesday, June 9th 2021**. Zcon2 will be a virtual conference, streaming on YouTube. 

The provisional schedule (subject to change) is below. Note that all times listed are in *UTC*. Registration details will be published in due course.

Join the [Zcon2 Lite Discord Server](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://discord.gg/sMNcpwU39q&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1620236243655000&usg=AOvVaw2oPwr9cJXz0qO5Fb4FeObL) to ask speakers questions, and engage with other attendees on various topics.

## Tuesday 8th June 2021

| Time *(UTC)* | Session Title |
| :---: | --- |
| 14:00 | [Opening Address](schedule#opening-address) by Jack Gavigan |
| 14:40 | [User Defined Assets](schedule#uda-panel) <br>*Panel discussion with Ian Miers, Peter Van Valkenburgh, J.R. Willett and Matt Luongo, chaired by Jack Gavigan* |
| 15:35 | [Zcash Open Major Grants](schedule#zomg)<br>*The ZOMG Committee* |
| 16:30 | [Fireside chat](schedule#fireside-chat) with Andrew Miller, Holmes Wilson, and Zooko Wilcox |
| 17:10 | [The State of UX in the Zcash Ecosystem](schedule#ux)<br>*Pili Guerra & Joseph van Geffen* |
| 18:05 | [Building the Outside Contributor Community](schedule#outside-contributors)<br>*Kevin Gorham*  |
| 18:45 | [HSMs & Hardware Wallets](schedule#hsms)<br>*Panel discussion with Juan Leni, Conrado GrouvÃªa & Daniel James* |
| 19:40 | [Halo2 & Orchard](schedule#halo2)<br>*Sean Bowe, Daira Hopwood & Deirdre Connolly* |
| 20:50 | [Reworking the NUP](schedule#nup)<br>*Steven Smith & Deirdre Connolly* |
| 21:30 | [FROST](schedule#frost)<br>*Chelsea Komlo* |
| 22:10 | [Update on Zcash Implementations & Protocol](schedule#implementations)<br>*Teor & Jack Grigg* |

## Wednesday 9th June 2021

| Time *(UTC)* | Session Title |
| :---: | --- |
| 14:00 | [The State of ZK Research](schedule#zkresearch)<br>*Mary Maller* |
| 14:55 | [Evaluating New Zero Knowledge Proof Research Before Implementation](schedule#evaluating)<br>*Panel discussion with Eran Tromer, Pratyush Mishra and Mary Maller, chaired by Daniel Benarroch* |
| 15:50 | [Snarks on Other Ecosystems](schedule#other=snarks)<br>*Panel discussion with Marco Stronati, Ariel Gabizon, Barry Whitehat, chaired by Anna Rose* |
| 16:45 | [Auditing Cryptography](schedule#auditing)<br>*Panel discussion with Thomas Pornin, Isis Agora Lovecruft, Taylor Hornby and JP Aummason, chaired by Liz Steininger* |
| 17:40 | [Interoperability Between Chains](schedule#interoperability)<br>*Panel discussion with Maximilian Roszko, Matt Luongo, Zooko Wilcox and Christopher Goes, chaired by John Light* |
| 18:35 | [Network Privacy](schedule#network-privacy)<br>*Panel discussion with Giulia Fanti, George Kadianakis and Janito Vaqueiro Ferreira Filho, chaired by Alan Fairless* |
| 19:30 | [Governance across Ecosystems](schedule#governance)<br>*Panel discussion with Hudson Jameson, Zaki Manian, Evan Shapiro and David Vorick, chaired by Peter Van Valkenburgh* |
| 20:25 | [Measuring Privacy Metrics](schedule#privacy-metrics)<br>*Panel discussion with Ashkan Soltani, Mitchell Krawiec-Thayer and Teor, chaired by David Campbell* |
