February 2, 2018
==============================

16:30-17:31 GMT

Board members in attendance: Peter, Andrew, Yan, Matt

Foundation employees in attendance: Josh, Antonie

1. Zcon0

- Antonie presented Zcon0 budget
- General agreement on "no lambo party" policy
- Total proposed cost of Zcon0: $357,500
- Proposed cost OK from Andrew, Yan, and Matt

2. Grants, 2017Q4 and what's next

- Josh to set up general mailing list, encourage grantees to share their results there
- Been a month a half since 2017Q4 grants awarded, general impression was positive
- Zcash4Windows issues...failure of process from unreviewed code (port)
- Proposal from Matt: the Foundation can solve the security auditing problem
  - Should we launch our own dev team?
	- Hire outside security auditing?
	  - Yan notes that 90% of the work is in actually fixing the issues, not finding them
	- Maybe hire a team to provide technical oversight for work done by others/contractors?
	- Some of the $250k for this years' grants budgeted could also be used to hire people for oversight
- Next grant programs (2018Q2, 2018Q4)
  - Add more reporting requirements (rather than just six months after the project is done)
	- Approve now for the sake of making an announcement
	- $125k in favor from Andrew, Yan, will reduce grant amounts to $125k

3. Governance, public support

- Andrew is taking non-profit law very very seriously :)
- We have a long runway on proving public support test, decided to table topic for now

4. 2018 Vision and Roadmap

- Josh presented his [vision and roadmap doc for 2018](https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/ZcashFoundation/blob/master/2018-VISION.md)
- Eager to have opportunity to play a role in enabling community governance over a cryptocurrency
- Yan: thoughts on drawing line between Company and Foundation?
  - Josh: wants Foundation to take on more responsibility but without being construed as active collaboration, has to be case-by-case
	- With Zcon0 there will be lots of collaboration, but long term there should be bright lines between the work we do and the work the Company does.
	- Weekly Foundation <> Company sync is by necessity, for now
  - Josh: Ideally 2-3 years to become more fully independent---especially with regard to protocol development

**Josh and Antonie Recuse Themselves, Only Board Members**

1. Vote to approve Josh's document/plan to be Executive Director. Passes four in favor, one absent.

2. Andrew brings up question of how new board members are added to community.

  - Possibility of having a group of voters designated 100+ from community to then chose more board members.
	- Decision to add two more board members through vote some time in future, will be discussed on GitHub transparently: four present board members agree.

3. Frequency of board meetings discussed, everyone happy with current tempo.
